# Package layout

This document describes the technical details of a Zuri package.

### Layout

The default layout for Zuri package when generated by `zuri init` is as 
follows:

- `.zuri`: The default Zuri pacakges directory which contains 
  installed packages and will only be available when at least one 
  or more package is installed.
- `app`: The directory contains the main application/package code.
- `index.zu`: The default Zuri package index file.
- `README.md`: The README.md file will be contain the main documentation 
  for your package.
  > **NOTE:**
  > If your packages adheres to Zuri standard multiline comment 
  > documentation format as shown in the Zuri standard library 
  > documentation, your package documentation _may_ be expanded to include
  > such documentations.
- `project.json`: The Zuri package configuration script.
- `tests`: This directory contains unit, integration and all types 
  of tests for your package.

**!Important**

You can create a Zuri package without having to run `zuri init`. Essentially,
the only files required are the `index.zu` and the `project.json` files and they
can be manually created without losing Zuri's ability to install, uninstall
and configure packages.


### `project.json`

The `project.json` file is pretty intuitive and is very similar to NodeJS NPM
package.json files. A typical sample of a complete `project.json` file looks like this:

```json
{
  "name": "sample", 
  "version": "0.1.0", 
  "description": "An example package", 
  "homepage": "", 
  "tags": [
    "tag1",
    "tag2",
    "tag3"
  ], 
  "author": "Package Author <someone@example.com>", 
  "license": "MIT", 
  "sources": [
    "zuri.zurilang.org"
  ],
  "deps": {
    "dependecny1": "1.0.0",
    "dependecny2": "1.0.0",
    "dependecny3": "1.0.0"
  },
  "post_install": "post-install-script.zu",
  "pre_uninstall": "pre-uninstall-script.zu",
  "cli": "cli-entry-script.zu"
}
```



